# Project-400
SBPIL Waste Heat to Power Project, Borjhara, India

1st CoU Issuance Period: 01/09/2015-31/12/2022 (07 years 04 months)

1st Crediting Period: 01/09/2015-31/12/2022 (07 years 04 months)
_______________
PRIOR HISTORY

The project activity has been registered as a UNFCCC CDM and other elements as VCS project
activity in the past as follows:

Title Shri Bajrang WHR CDM Project UNFCCC reference No 0528

Sectoral scopes 1 : Energy industries (renewable - / non-renewable
sources)

Activity Scale LARGE
Methodologies Used ACM0004 ver. 2 - Consolidated methodology for waste gas
and/or heat for power generation

CDM Registration Date 08/10/2006

Crediting Period 01/09/2005 – 31/08/2015 (Fixed)

CERs Issuance History
___________________________
Monitoring Period: 01/09/2005 – 31/08/2006
CERs Issued Quantity: 74674 tCO2

Monitoring Period: 01/09/2006 – 31/05/2007
CERs Issued Quantity: 66885 tCO2

Monitoring report: 01/06/2007 – 31/10/2007
CERs Issued Quantity 40283

Monitoring report: 01/11/2007 – 30/04/2008
CERs Issued Quantity 44063

Monitoring report: 01/05/2008 – 31/08/2008
CERs Issued Quantity 33322

Monitoring report: 01/09/2008 – 31/01/2011
CERs Issued Quantity 157929

Monitoring report: 01/02/2011 – 30/09/2011 (
CERs Issued Quantity 44515

Monitoring report: 01/10/2011 – 31/08/2012
CERs Issued Quantity 60387

Monitoring report: 01/09/2012 – 31/08/2013
CERs Issued Quantity 63841

Monitoring report: 01/09/2013 – 31/08/2014
CERs Issued Quantity 74340

Monitoring report: 01/09/2014 – 31/08/2015
CERs Issued Quantity 65729

______________________________
Title Shri Bajrang RE Project UNFCCC reference No 2128

Sectoral scopes
1 : Energy industries (renewable - / non-renewable
sources)

Activity Scale Small Scale
Methodologies Used AMS-I.D. ver. 18 - Grid connected renewable
electricity generation

CDM Registration Date 30/09/2016

Crediting Period 27/02/2016 to 30/06/2019 (Awaiting Issuance)

Last MR Date 22/07/2019

Type of crediting period 07 Years Renewable

Length of the Crediting Period 07 Years

Crediting period from 2702/2016-26/02/2023 (Renewable)
__________________________
The biomass based boiler/turbine has also been registered for carbon credits (UNFCCC
CDM#2128) next to the existing UCR project activity. This biomass project activity generates
power by utilizing the steam generated by using renewable biomass, rice husk as fuel in the boiler.
Dolochar has also been co fired with rice husk. The electricity generated by this biomass (RE)
project has been used for captive purpose and the surplus electricity exported to the CSEB grid.
Emission reductions have been claimed for the electricity displaced by the RE project activity
only. The RE project has been registered as a CDM project on 27/02/2009. Some months in 2008-
2009 were also registered for carbon credits under the VCS program as follows:

Title Shri Bajrang RE Project VCS Reference No 1167

Sectoral scopes
1 : Energy industries (renewable - / non-renewable
sources)

Activity Scale Small Scale
Methodologies Used AMS-I.D.

Crediting Period 01/09/2008-31/12/2008
VCUs issued 13459 tCO2

Crediting Period 01/01/2009-26/02/2009
VCUs issued 6543 tCO2

The project activity is seeking CoUs under the UCR CoU Standard for the period 01/09/2015-
31/12/2022 and hence there is no double counting issue of carbon credits for the said vintage
period
____________
The project activity titled, SBPIL Waste Heat to Power Project, Borjhara, India is located in
Urla Industrial Area, Village: Borjhara, District: Raipur, State: Chhattisgarh, Country: India.

Purpose of the project activity:
GOEL GROUP of Industries is one of the leading business houses in the State of Chhattisgarh,
India. The group has entered into the business of Iron & Steel with a Re-Rolling Mill in the name
of M/s Shri Bajrang Alliance Ltd. (formerly known as M/s Shri Bajrang Alloys Ltd). M/s Shri
Bajrang Power & Ispat Ltd belongs to this group has also entered in the business of TMT Bars,
which is selling the product under the brand name Goel TMT.

The group has been further strengthened by establishing Shri Bajrang Power and Ispat Limited
(“SBPIL”) which has emerged as one of the leading integrated steel companies based out of central
India and is one of the top 10 players in India in terms of capacity for iron ore pellets, iron ore
beneficiation and sponge iron. The plant was commissioned in 2005 (also called Unit I)
manufactures TMT Bars, Ferro alloys, steel billets, sponge iron and fly ash bricks. 

The project activity takes place at a sponge iron plant (Unit I) and involves the generation of electrical power
through the installation of waste heat recovery boilers and steam turbine generators (STGs). The
waste heat produced during the manufacture of sponge iron is passed through boilers and the
resultant steam is utilised to generate electrical power. The power generated from two condensing
turbines (8 MW and 10 MW) is consumed in captive requirements and surplus is exported to the
grid via Chhattisgarh State Electricity Board (CSEB). 

The energy generated in the project is
measured by meters installed at both STGs in the power plant. The project activity was
commissioned in phase wise wherein the 8 MW STG started operating on 12/07/2005 and 10 MW
STG started operating on 31/08/2005 and has been operating till date on regular basis.
The electricity is generated at 11 kV which is then stepped up to 132 kV in the plant before being
fed through a 132 kV sub-station (Urla substation). Apart from the waste heat recovery boilers,
steam from an AFBC boiler is also added to the common steam header (from September 2008
onwards), however carbon credits or CoUs are not being claimed for the increased generation due to
the additional steam source (this additional steam source has been added as the turbines cannot run
at their rated capacity with the steam from the waste heat recovery boilers only). 

This apportioning
of generation based on steam supply is in line with the tool in the methodology. The project activity
thus entails utilisation of waste heat of flue gases generated in Direct Reduced Iron (DRI) kilns of
sponge iron plants of SBPIL (Project Proponent or PP hereafter) in power generation. DRI, is a
type of kiln used in the production of sponge iron, where iron ore is reduced to sponge iron using
coal & Iron ore through a rotary Kiln at high temperature (1000 0C). 

The reduction process yields
carbon di-oxide and carbon monoxide. This waste heat of flue gases is utilised in the generation of
steam in (WHRB), which is further expanded in two turbines with total installed capacity 18MW
(08 MW+ 10 MW) to generate power. The 8MW turbine generator was synchronised with the grid
on 12/07/2005, while the 10MW turbine generator was synchronised with the grid on 31/08/2005.
After these synchronisations, the turbines were tested and trials were undertaken on 01/09/2005 and
this would be the earliest commissioning date that the project activity could evacuate electricity to
the grid
